A little bit of everything you know.
It's got printing and bindings and you name it.
It's a mixed up, but it's stuff that we like.
It's quite beautiful.
See, her application is at the Field Museum here, getting their books in order and getting them together, and she has some
interesting discoveries.
Well, what I'm looking at here is a magnificent wall of books.
One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine shelves high, perhaps a 10-foot high ceiling.
Well, we got rid of a lot of them when we moved.
Yeah, I had them over here.
We gave them about 3,000.
Did you give them to institutions?
Yes.
Oh, yes.
Newberry, Chicago, Northwestern, Lake Forest, and even the University of San Francisco.
Really?
What's the focus been?
Well, it started out with nothing, and then gradually we got into it.
Books is a work of work.
That's what you would say it was.
We had another one.
You'll see one of the projects over there.
I don't know if you recognize the man who did that.
No, it's quite beautiful.
I love to see everything.
I don't recognize it.
You can tell me.
It's a Dau-M-I-E.
It's a nice one to study, and it may sound
trying to be scatologic, but who do you think did this?
Well, look at it.
Well, I'll tell you, take her clothes off, and then put a tutu on her, and then tell me who it is.
I'm not going to attempt it.
You're going to tell me.
Degas.
Degas did this.
Yeah.
So you actually collect art as well as... Well, we do like the Mr... Mr... The reason you see this is that some of them go around... Now, what sort of books are you interested in?
Well, I'm interested in books.
I'm interested in the people who put together wonderful collections.
And I thought maybe you could just tell me, you said you started from nothing.
When was that?
When you say you started?
Well, almost when we were married.
I had started a little before by collecting the first edition and not knowing anything about it.
Just thought it was, you know, that was the thing to do.
I hate to tell you, most of them, we've gotten rid of them.
The years, because unless you're a scholar, there's no reason to have first editions.
You're a scholar and doing research, no sense to it.
I would say there are a good 2,000 or 3,000 books in here, though, at least.
Oh, you haven't seen anything yet?
This is just the front room, I gather.
Well, do you know Nello Bindings?
Have you ever heard of them?
I have heard of them, yeah.
Have you ever seen one?
No, I'd love to.
No?
I'm going to put these papers down over here, if that's okay.
Just don't touch it.
I won't touch it, I promise.
Well, it's a funny thing.
I'm very careful, believe me.
You know, the more you touch these things, the better off it is.
And the reverse is for books.
Well, the book in here isn't worth anything.
Oh, my God, it's gorgeous.
Let's go over here and look at it.
It took me a long time to know how they do this.
What do we call this?
Well, this is a N-I-E-L-L-O.
Okay.
The book is worthless.
It's a book just put in here for this.
So you bought the binding?
We bought it for the binding.
You bought the book for the binding.
I see.
Yes.
So, in other words, when you bought the binding, you just bought the binding by itself.
Is that correct?
No, we bought it.
The book was in it.
I see.
But this book wasn't in it when this was made.
And when was that made?
Probably between 700 and 1,000.
Oh, my God.
But this is...
No, don't touch it.
I'll show you our other collection.
What is the material?
This is a combination of gold and silver.
And you see these, the apostles here.
It's magnificent.
And then the thing that the secret was that it took us years and now we got it, how this was done.
These were done by the monks very early on.
And it took more than a lifetime because they didn't have anything but leather to polish with.
And we had the book and we didn't pay too much attention to this until we saw some nello in a Vatican exhibit here where
And after great difficulty, they were shone and clean.
Now this is a combination of it.
These are done—they were done by the mugs, and they used substances to go in there.
They engraved it.
They could do that sort of a thing.
That's Christ, and these are the four apostles.
Now, this other side of it... This is about an octavo size, is that what you say?
This, you see, this is impossible.
This is easy to understand, because they hid it from this other corner.
But this isn't.
But what they do...
They engraved these things, and then they put in a material that would turn black.
And then they polished it down, and this is what it is.
And what did they put in there, a Bible or... Well, we don't know.
I think this was put in the... Well, this thing is... That's in Greek.
Yeah.
That's just a book that was put in there.
This just was put in there.
You can see that this is a pretty— What country of origin is this particular binding?
Probably in the Mediterranean.
I mean, where the fighting is now in that area.
Apparently, the Chinese had done it, too, but I've never seen one.
heard of them actually having them.
How long have you had this?
We've had this book.
About 20 years.
How old did you say?
Oh, more than that.
Yeah, we bought that, I think, in the 50s or 60s.
And the funny thing is that the man who sold it to us, when I came back and didn't describe it as Nello, but described the binding,
Didn't remember he'd sold it, though.
Really?
Did you know it was a Nello when you bought it?
No.
You just bought it because it's beautiful, obviously.
Yeah, we thought that's what it was.
Oh, you thought it might be a Nello.
No, I didn't know.
I had never heard of Nello at the time.
But we began looking and we found that there is such a thing in there called Nello.
This one, there are a lot of them in the States.
The man from here who knows more about booking books than anybody I know, well, took it and got it for me when the Metropolitan had polished it for, cleaned it up for.
And they said it was the best one.
The experts had seen that was up until that was around
70, that they had seen in the States, but there are better ones in there.
That's pretty nice.
But it's, you know, this is, if you tell them that you've seen the yellow binding, I think you said they've seen the last word.
Really?
Apparently it's not been done later, you see, there.
And that's about 1,300 years old, you said?
Did you say?
Well, it's before 1,000.
The binding is before 1,000.
Before the year 1000.
Yes.
It's interesting, aren't you think so?
It's a thousand years old.
Apparently, I think it's... It's fast, more than it's miraculous.
What you see is that, what's in it is nothing.
No, it's clearly... What attracted you to it?
Just was it the best... Oh, we've got all sorts of bindings.
Well, there's a show going on, and I've got three of them.
I'm told you, you really have a magnificent collection of bindings.
What is it about the binding that attracts you?
Well, you get them afterwards.
You see what people have done.
I'd say our recent collections in the book field, because we've had this other one, of which we have a unique collection of Domiye.
You'll go out of here seeing more than you can see any place in the world.
Yeah.
I shouldn't say that.
Well, that's pretty magnificent.
Well, value is a relative thing.
You notice I'm not asking how much things cost.
I have no idea.
But my point is it's beautiful, and it's magnificent, and it's what pleases you as collectors.
It's a great thing.
Wait a minute now.
Where do I find it?
What are you looking for now?
This is Mr. Rosenthal, R-O-S-E-N-T-J-L.
I saw Scott's books, yeah.
Here is the man who was one of the greats at Harvard, Perry Miller.
I don't know if you know how.
He went there.
He never got a degree from them, but he became their
They're a great man, and, well, to be immodest.
Here's a posthumous book of his that was very, very important.
It's a book that killed them, actually.
And it has, I'll show you, the trade one.
Here he is.
And may I show you something in it?
This is just not that it makes the book any better.
It's dedicated to Marie Louise and Samuel Rosenthal.
And the title of that book is The Life of the Mind in America by Perry Miller.
These are all of Perry's books.
Uh-huh.
That's a shelf, I'd say, of 25 books.
Yeah, no.
The funny thing is... Major writers of America, huh?
Oh, yes.
Well, he's been the great man on it.
He's... American literature.
Yeah.
You see the difference here.
You'll see the differences.
And they go all over.
And here is the one...
for a collection that he made of other Americans.
Tell me what started you collecting books.
Well, I'd say that when we were married, which was in 32, it was one of the things we had in common.
So we began buying, and then when we got along, we...
You don't start out for any of this, in my opinion.
You just get more and you like more and you know more later on what's important in a book.
Now, the man we've collected is a man of whom his counterpart in England said...
that he is without doubt the finest hand-pressed printer who has ever lived and probably ever will live.
His name was, he died with the name of Giovanni Mardersteig.
He was born Hans Mardersteig and was sent to Switzerland to
You have some Marderstein here?
What?
You have some?
Okay.
Yes.
We'll take you back.
Okay.
We'll take you back then.
Paul, I'll give you a little, I'll confess.
Paul Gale told me to really, if I see nothing else, he said, see the Marderstein collection.
Well, then let's go right back.
Okay.
Back to them.
All right, you've seen the three of those.
There's a Degas and a Dormier.
Yeah, and a Dormier over there.
A Dormier over there.
And over here.
Uh-huh.
Now, did you get these in Chicago, or did you travel?
Oh, these were all over the world.
Really?
I forgot to tell you a story about that, how things get around.
It was known in Europe after 1970, but it wasn't here.
There'd been a... When Harvard had... Fogg had an exhibit of his works.
They had them, which was called a private collection.
We didn't use our name.
It hasn't been used.
It's going to be known, but I'll tell you the funniest story.
I've wanted to see these, we both have, in other places because the lost wax method means that none of the stuff produced by that
is exactly the same as the other.
What's the method called?
Lost?
Wax method.
Lost.
Wax.
Yes.
Okay.
Well, it's a very old one.
And they've not, for fine creation of bronzes, they haven't found a better method.
Really?
But they vary.
And so we go around.
And the funniest thing I've ever had happen was this.
We were in, I think it was in
in Belgium.
And there we finally got to the man who—the boss man.
He said, what do you want to see those for?
They're just like these others.
I said, well, we're interested in them, and we'd like to see the variations.
And so, well, there is no difference.
I said, well, we see the ones you've gotten here, and they're very nice, but we told you I have some in—what do they call it?
Well, it's in the attic, and we'd like to see them.
Well, they're just like the others.
So we went on.
He was through with us.
And I don't know, I did something I'd never done before.
I said to the man—see, it was known in Europe.
They had unfortunately told him.
I gave him my business card, and I said, we're going to be here.
for three days.
Maybe, and if you change your mind, please call me."
So he looks at it, and he said, Rosenthal.
Oh, Sakagi?
Sakagi?
Rosenthal?
Told me I said, yes.
We had the rest of the place.
Isn't that great?
So your reputation preceded you.
Well, that, it did in France.
It still isn't out here, but there is one of the masterpieces.
That also is a Dommier.
Yeah.
Does it have a name or how?
Yes, that's Radopoldo.
I'm sorry, what is it?
Radopoldo.
Ah.
Yeah, he was his shakedown man.
If you look at it, it's the only full... Who is it now?
R-A-T-A-P-O-I-L, isn't it?
She speaks.
But you see, they say, this is the only one that has no front or no back, because no matter which way you look at it, it's done fully.
You see?
And you see him leaning on it, and so on.
I just feel his name.
So, well, anyway.
Yeah.
Well, we began, and we had some good.
Oh, yeah, so sweet.
Oh, those are no great value.
They're nice.
That's what Art is supposed to do.
It's supposed to do this.
Well, do you think that was Art?
Well, I think.
They're Picasso-like.
No, you're close, but not.
It's Matisse.
Oh, Matisse.
Same family.
Better, actually.
Can I tell them how expensive they were?
If you want.
I'd like to.
How much do you think those cost before they were mounted?
How long have you had them?
A long time.
Well, they were just before he died, I'd say in the late 50s.
Not a lot, buddy.
What?
Not a lot of money.
Well, how much would you say?
Fifty dollars.
Two dollars.
Now they... See, I knew it was going to be something like that.
Yeah, well, we'll go down here.
Would you spell... This doesn't cover.
This is one given to a slave friend.
Oh, I'm sorry.
What did you say that binding was again, that metal binding?
What did you call it again?
L-O-N-I-E.
L-I-E.
Double L-O.
L-O binding.
You would say that is your great... Not necessarily.
But that's the most unique one, I think, of the old ones.
Here are some.
I haven't looked at them a lot of times.
You can't believe where we got those.
We bought them in Ethiopia.
And I've worked on some other museum.
You can't get the odor out of them from the camel.
They're used by monks, you see.
What do you call them?
Are they book bags?
Samo bags, whatever you want.
They're stink bags.
Here, I'll take this other one.
This one will come out.
I think.
Lovely condition.
I call them
Saddle books.
Well, she's oiled this stuff a little.
And it's a religion I'm sure you know a lot about.
Oh my God, look at that.
What is this?
Oh my God.
That's like a wooden binding, right?
It is.
Well, it is.
A wooden binding.
Can you see what they did when they broke it?
Worms have eaten into it, too.
How old is this?
Not too old.
Do you think so?
No, I think it may be from anywhere from 1700 to 1900.
Really?
But what is it?
It's a religious book.
It's a Bible.
It's a Coptic religion.
It's a Coptic Bible?
Yes.
You all put it back.
Yeah.
And you got that in Ethiopia?
Yes.
Yeah.
From a gila or from a... Oh, dear me, I. Come on.
No, we... There are no gilas in Ethiopia.
We went all over the country and we bought, we were able to get the last three of those.
But you can't go there now, you know.
But did you go to Ethiopia with the idea of getting something like that?
No, of course not.
Well, we wanted to, well...
No, we've gotten some stuff.
We thought that we might find... There's something that I know is in here and I can't... What is it?
Oh, a page from... by Winklevinsch, whatever.
I wanted it out when any of those kids came.
Oh.
Well, there are a lot of things here that are interesting books.
These are bestiaries.
There's one by Picasso.
There's one by Miro.
There are other others.
Miro Picasso.
Yeah, and Matisse.
Matisse is smaller, so he's down here.
These are pages of illuminated manuscripts, I would say.
Yeah, and these are versions.
They've got one version.
There isn't much in here, so I'll close this one.
Well, there are
And I wish you could tell, maybe you can tell me, when did they change from a four-line stave to a five-line stave?
Yes, sir, I'll check it out.
One, two, three, four.
Tell me what this is, what we're looking at.
These are the things for which the monks would think.
Well, it's at least, it's an elephant folio size, not elephant, but it's large.
Oh, yes.
Oh, these are.
And the letters are especially beautiful here.
I mean, the way they.
It's a page of a musical.
Yes.
Of a missal.
Well, of the monks, when they sing their singing services.
See?
Mm-hmm.
And it's four lines.
Yeah, this one is... That's nice, I think.
That one is Persian.
We've got a Persian manuscript, too.
So what country is this from?
That?
I don't know.
Probably from Italy or someplace.
Look how the colors... No, it's from Italy, Sam.
No, this is probably from... It could be somewhere in Eastern Europe.
Turkey somewhere around here.
This is the Turkish one.
Now this is done by a priest in Iowa.
And I've got to show you something.
He considered himself the greatest man on the Trajan letters, you know, the one on the Trajan column.
And so he used it, and our children had this made for us.
And he and I had a long discussion on the T. The way it is on lower case, it looks good.
But it doesn't look good in the upper case.
So when he made this,
And he wrote to the children and said, I've done this, for I know your father and mother agree with me that the placing of the letter in the alphabet is terrible.
The capital.
Okay.
So what did he do?
RTS.
So just to show you, he knew it.
Isn't that funny?
Well, here are some more of the old ones.
He inverted the two letters in there.
Juxtaposed is the word.
Yeah, this.
What, now, what do these all have?
Do they have anything in common?
Or are they just all beautiful?
No, no, we just bought them.
No, no.
When you begin, you don't begin and think you're going to use them.
But you buy them as pages?
What?
Yes.
You buy them as pages, as individual pages.
Yeah.
Oh, they were very reasonable.
Now they've grown up to.
There.
Here's another one.
That's Turkish.
Yeah.
How about that?
This is that thing, fella.
You don't have to look at that.
Let's give it to anybody else.
And here is the earliest one that Buick did.
I don't know if you know Buick.
D-E-W-I-C-K.
Not the car.
He doesn't have much value yet.
We just like him.
You saw that Matisse.
I did.
Here's a young Matisse.
That's beautiful.
How he became simpler and simpler when he... Wonderful.
I don't know, Matisse, M-E-T-I-S-S-E.
What do we call this room?
Does this room have a name?
We live in a den.
I don't call them a den.
A den.
And I'm looking at a wall of daumiers.
One, two, three, four, five, six, nine, 11, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17.
The whole thing is 70.
70.
There are 36 of these.
Now, over here,
If they told you to see the Alphatina Badone, the martyr stacks are in here.
I'm glad I had to clean them today here.
I didn't know you were coming, don't you?
I'm really enjoying this.
I suppose, well, he did beautiful things.
And I don't know, what do you think he would see first?
I don't know.
That's your department, not mine.
Well, I don't know.
Well, they're all different sorts of ones.
Give them the little one I like, the little Chinese thing.
Eeny-weeny.
Well, where is that?
I knew I'd find a hard one.
Well, never mind.
Doesn't matter.
That's right.
No.
But if you know printing.
You just move these things here.
Yeah.
One of the things to show the delicacy of his work is in this book.
Here's one.
I suppose you've seen a lot of Manson's etchings.
Not really, sir.
We've had to have them come out to see.
Well, there are two books here.
This has a face of Oedipus on the floor.
That's the way it came, isn't it?
Now, here.
Oedipus.
And let me show you.
Here's the first one.
Now these are etchings?
Yeah.
By?
Manzu.
Etchings by, we spell Manzu.
M-A-N-Z-U.
Well, have you have seen... He did one of an archbishop's statuary.
He did a lot of statuary.
That's in Rome, isn't it?
Where is it?
What are you asking for?
The Monzu.
It's in Italy.
Oh, they're all over.
Yeah.
But he's known as a sculptor, but he did some books.
And this is one.
Beautiful.
Now, as printing...
I learned the part that shows this man's greatness.
The book was also, this was translated from the original Greek, which he had it done, by one of the officers of J.P.
Morgan Company.
And he did this, he did the English.
And here it is in— No, the translator did or the translator did?
No, the translator, he did the illustrations that are in both.
But this is translated by one of the officers of the—that likes his work very much.
Translator is Edward Waite, W-A-T-L-A-N-G.
Edward Watlin.
Translated by Edward Watlin.
Yeah, that's right.
Well, now, and he insisted on all this.
Now, then, he had it done by another person, and the man who wrote the history of this stuff.
I won't show the beginning part of it, but I'll give it a little bit.
Now, the Italian who he selected to turn a Greek into the other was, I think, a professor.
And he did it in prose.
And the pictures are the same.
But here it is.
But it looks, when you look at the two books,
They look quite different.
They do, yeah.
But the typeface, but everything used is the same.
He was delicate in his designing.
This is showing the importance of book design.
Beautiful.
And you got these in Europe?
I bought this one in the States.
Now the thing that's happened, there's a man in Philadelphia.
And I think he's got the best collection because he has a lot of ephemera, the little things, you know.
We're talking about Monzo again.
No, I'm talking about this collector.
I see.
But I mean, the best collection... This is a, what I've shown you, is a pretty tour de force.
That's because the type, the subject, paper are all the same, and yet they look like two completely different things.
And over how many years did it take you to assemble that Daumier collection?
The Daumier?
All right.
About 30.
30?
Maybe a little longer.
We just got the last one.
A little bum.
I'm sorry.
No, it's okay.
I'll show you the last one.
We got this only.
And the subject is, well, it looks English almost, doesn't it?
Well, these were all people who were in the assembly in 1830.
Really?
And what he did, he made the... He didn't think he was doing sculpture, but it was after lithography, but before photography.
So he'd go up and take wet clay and make these.
He never bothered to fire them.
Really?
And a man found and bought a bushel of them.
And he was...
He was an art dealer.
And so he made one for himself and put it out on one of them.
And the result was that the customers liked it, so he did all of them.
He had 36.
So there's 36 of the bus.
And what do you call them?
They're by their names.
These are all plots.
The only sympathetic one is this one.
I know the names of some of them.
This is, this one, you see.
I mean, I think that's a kind look at that.
Now, the material here is what?
These are bronzes?
No.
This one is, I just had his name, but he was,
a nice one.
But the others, he didn't like any of them.
This is the last one.
Look how he flatters him.
You can see them all these guys.
Okay.
How long ago was this made?
Oh, these were made in the, some might say, these were made in 1920 to up to 50 maybe, maybe around then.
And
But they didn't sell any of them.
He didn't do it for that.
He wanted this one to have one.
But he could sell them, so he didn't.
Of these, there are from 30, 25 to 30 or more, because when they got near, they all come out slightly different.
So the experts go over them, and if they're going to have 30,
They may select 40 first and put those aside, and then of those, they'll see what are the best of that.
So there are about five, generally, of those that have it.
Now the numbering is in them.
And the mark.
Here, this is.
That looks like 60, 69.
This is 18 out of 30.
Now that's 18.
Out of 30.
And this one, now he's the nut.
Now what are they casting?
These are bronze or brass?
These are bronze.
They're all bronze.
Yeah.
Now that's what they use for the ones we gave some when we moved away.
We gave some Rodin to the... Oh dear.
...because we didn't have room for them.
Magnificent.
Now this is his head that he probably did.
But the interesting thing that he felt that, you see it?
Yeah, that's right.
I don't have to go in there, sir.
No, you don't have to go in, but I'll show you something.
I'll do this.
There's no back.
No.
Here, I'm running my hand along the edge.
Isn't that something?
It's magnificent, though.
Yeah, well, now all of these to go, again, those over there are all Martyrsteig books.
Which, they're the... Those ones I showed you, the two of them.
Okay.
Two of them, and I don't.
Those were Mutterstag books.
Yeah.
The edifice.
Yeah, these are.
I'll tell you.
That's a nice one.
There was another one here.
Here, okay.
He had Christmas books.
And for a little one, these are the little ones that he gave him.
He had stopped it when I got to know him well.
So I don't know.
Well, one of the men... You knew him?
What?
You knew about it?
Oh, yes.
I could tell you stories about him.
We became close friends.
These were the books that he...
He gave for Christmas presents for a while.
1969, with thanks and best wishes for 1969.
Yeah.
Now, this one I bought.
And this one.
They're beautiful.
Yeah.
And this other one.
You find if you don't do this, you don't do it.
That's right.
Do you enjoy going through these every once in a while?
Oh, sure, I often do.
This one is... That one he gave to the man in France, and this one...
to the dealer in France, who's my friend.
Have you ever seen an accordion book?
Yes.
The only one of the artists of this century that I really knew and disliked cordially did one.
Now at the moment I can't tell you.
his name.
But these are all his books.
Would you say you have all of his books?
No.
No, no.
He did 198.
I have about all of the very early ones and some of the others.
No, and I'm not going to try to get them all.
I tried on that and I didn't have it until
So you've got all of that now.
That one I showed you picked up.
That was the last one.
So there are 70 of those.
What?
There are 70 of those.
No, no, of the busts.
Of the busts.
There are 36, and if you count them you'd see 36 of the other ones.
Now what are those busts called?
Is there a name?
Oh, they're all named.
No, I don't mean individually.
What is it?
Is there a name for it?
Like a suite?
He just did 36 known busts, in other words.
Yeah.
And you have all of them.
No, yes.
Is there anyone else that has all 36, I wonder?
Yes, a lot of them.
The man who talks a lot about it is the guy out in California.
Oh, you know who it is, the Occidental Petroleum.
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, I know who you mean.
Yeah.
I know exactly who you mean.
Oh, I can't think of his name at the moment.
So what of your books, what would you say your favorite item is, your favorite part of the collection?
I don't have favorites, because these are a matter of subject and a matter of a person that he wrote beautifully to.
And it's just fine...
printing, whatever that word means.
His man in, his counterpart in England, I think I said to you, what he felt about him.
And he was not alone.
Others did.
And he was a scholar and everything.
And a sweet man.
Oh, I could tell you stories that are very funny.
Here is a
Here is the, uh... Well, here is an unusual book that was... that was made for me.
Chinese coaching.
I had nothing to do with that.
But, uh... Here is... Here is the, uh... Well, this book comes in several ways, but this is the, uh... catalog.
And, uh...
Is it beautiful?
But, uh, this was not—this was done and printed by his son, but this shows some of them.
We have all of them that we want.
And, uh— Are you still acquiring things?
No, I—we—I'm trying not to—yes, we—well, we got last—no, not this year.
We're trying not to buy.
What do you plan to do, do you think, with this one?
One of the books?
Well, I'll tell you, we only know a little about them, what we'll do with them.
All of the, of all of the, of the Alphazena Bodoni, that's Martin Martin Stein, that the Newberry doesn't have,
They would get the rest.
I wouldn't say it, but there.
They would go to them.
I'll just show you a little of this one.
This is a book that a man, a professor, who thought he was indebted to me, and he wasn't, had done for me in China.
That's gorgeous.
Let's see, I have to put it this way.
That's the spine of the book.
That's handmade paper.
But it's really not a book, as far as I'm concerned.
I mean, it really isn't.
It's an artwork.
No, my goodness.
It goes the other way.
I never can keep it straight.
This is an accordion book, right?
And these are watercolors, I would say.
Yeah, they are.
Well, that's art.
Have you ever seen them do this?
They've drawn it, and this is the Chinese.
Apparently, each page is dedicated to us.
Well, this was done for you.
Yeah, this one was made for us.
This man who felt he was indebted had it done.
Magnificent.
It's a lovely thing.
How long have you had this?
About a year and a half.
No, he came back from China.
He didn't get it.
It took about four years to get it.
Wow, that's making sense.
But look at how they get depth.
What do we call this?
Well, it has no name.
I mean, this kind of thing, I wonder.
Well, let's see what he calls it.
It's supposedly a book.
And here is an explanation of the, well...
Surname, or what they say, Child of Favorite Printers.
Child of Favorite Printers?
Yeah.
Mm-hmm.
That's in Mandarin.
The Mandarin is Wu Da Sen.
Mm-hmm.
And here's what they all were.
They all varied.
Nice figure.
That's great.
Well, I don't want to take up too much of your time, sir.
Maybe we could just sit down and talk for 10 or 15 minutes, and then I'll be on my way.
I'd just like to talk to you generally about your experience as a collector and what it's meant to you, and then I'll thank you for your time and be on my way.
Well, I'll be glad to.
Would you like the facilities while we're down here?
No, I'm fine, sir.
I'm fine.
Okay.
the 500th anniversary of his birth.
Who is this now?
Durer.
Durer, okay.
All right, and I'd like to show you the first proof taken of it, which was given to him.
There it is.
And you see he didn't get depth very well or anything.
A-D-U-R-E-R.
Well, this was, yeah.
This is in a book now that has been published.
But this was done, cut by this man.
And you see, he didn't get very good third dimension, but look at here.
He learned.
That's magnificent.
This is more a typical doer.
Is this anyone in the family?
No, my father.
Are you from Chicago?
Yes, I was born here.
Native Chicagoans?
Yeah, but my mother came from New York, my grandmother came from Indiana, and my grandfather came from New York, too.
We're in New York State.
So we're... Just a few more minutes and I'll be on my way.
Hey, no hurry.
I just went out and did a few things, which I have to do.
I'm just going to put this tape on the other side right now so we don't have to...